# Project Overview

This application helps the user track all food intake for the day and automatically calculates the amount of calories and other nutrients consumed. The user submits a general food item they would like to add to the day and the application responds with a list of approved items for the user to choose from. Once an item is selected the user then chooses the type of measurement that corresponds with what they ate. This list is generated diretly from the food item they selected. The user then inputs how many servings they had, and at what meal time they had it. Pressing the ADD button adds the food item to the selected meal time and displays the running total of calories for that time slot. As food is added to the tracker a final count of calories and other nutrients can be seen at the bottom of the application. As the nutrient counts are being updated they are compared against an internal plan for the user and will display any overages in red. On exiting the application a prompt will ask the user if they would like to save their data. If yes is selected, all of the data is saved to a local database for future use. If no is selected, the application is exited and the data for that session is erased. Every time the application is opened any saved items will load from the database and display on the screen.


# Project Utilities

The requests module is used in the API class in order to structure the URL calls and compile the Json responses. 
SQLite3 is used to structure the database class and data queries.
Tkinter and its sub-module, Ttk, are used for the application GUI.


# Project Structure

The applications code is structured around 5 main sections which come to gather in the Main file. There is a directory containing all of the API functions, one containing classes for the foodItem and the messagebox, one containing the database structure, one holding an intermediate class, and the final directory sets up the main GUI. All methods in the GUI which are used to interact with the other classes first run through the "Middleman". The "Middleman" then connects the data from the GUI to the data in the API or database structures. When a food item is searched for, the search term is passed to the API class which finds all related food items and returns the result to the GUI to display. The GUI takes the results and calls a new messagebox object which displays the food items and allows the user to select one. The item selected is then sent back to the API class where it is searched, and the measurement options are saved. These options are sent back to the GUI where they can populate the measurement drop down menu. After the user inputs how many servings they had, and when they had them, the GUI collects all the information, sends it to the API class where the item number is searched with the measurement label, and all nurients for that item are found. This then creates a new food item and sends it back to the GUI to be displayed. The "Middleman" takes all food items created and adds it to a list for saving at the end of the session. The GUI takes the food item, places it in the correct time slot, and changes all labels pertaining to the new calorie amounts. When the application is closed, and the user chooses to save their data, the "Middleman" takes the foodItem list it has been buidling and sends it to the database class where a query takes each food item and saves it to the day's table. When the application is started, after the GUI has been created, the "Middleman" accesses the database and retrieves any food items stored for the day, then passes it to the GUI to be displayed.   

